
The stench may cause the target to flinch.
The Pokémon makes it rain when it enters a battle.
Its Speed stat is gradually boosted.
The Pokémon is protected against critical hits.
It cannot be knocked out with one hit.
Prevents the use of self-destructing moves.
The Pokémon is protected from paralysis.
Boosts the Pokémon's evasion in a sandstorm.
Contact with the Pokémon may cause paralysis.
Restores HP if hit by an Electric-type move.
Restores HP if hit by a Water-type move.
Prevents it from becoming infatuated.
Eliminates the effects of weather.
The Pokémon's accuracy is boosted.
Prevents the Pokémon from falling asleep.
Changes the Pokémon's type to the foe's move.
Prevents the Pokémon from getting poisoned.
It powers up Fire-type moves if it's hit by one.
Blocks the added effects of attacks taken.
Prevents the Pokémon from becoming confused.
Negates all moves that force switching out.
Lowers the foe's Attack stat.
Prevents the foe from escaping.
Inflicts damage to the attacker on contact.
Only supereffective moves will hit.
Gives immunity to Ground type moves.
Contact may poison or cause paralysis or sleep.
Passes a burn, poison, or paralysis to the foe.
Prevents other Pokémon from lowering its stats.
All status problems heal when it switches out.
Draws in all Electric-type moves to up Sp. Attack.
Boosts the likelihood of added effects appearing.
Boosts the Pokémon's Speed in rain.
Boosts the Pokémon's Speed in sunshine.
Raises the likelihood of meeting wild Pokémon.
The Pokémon copies a foe's Ability.
Raises the Pokémon's Attack stat.
Contact with the Pokémon may poison the attacker.
The Pokémon is protected from flinching.
Prevents the Pokémon from becoming frozen.
Prevents the Pokémon from getting a burn.
Prevents Steel-type Pokémon from escaping.
Gives immunity to sound-based moves.
The Pokémon gradually regains HP in rain.
The Pokémon summons a sandstorm in battle.
The Pokémon raises the foe's PP usage.
Ups resistance to Fire- and Ice-type moves.
The Pokémon awakens quickly from sleep.
Contact with the Pokémon may burn the attacker.
Enables a sure getaway from wild Pokémon.
Prevents other Pokémon from lowering accuracy.
Prevents other Pokémon from lowering Attack stat.
The Pokémon may pick up items.
Pokémon can't attack on consecutive turns.
Boosts the Attack stat, but lowers accuracy.
Contact with the Pokémon may cause infatuation.
Ups Sp. Atk if another Pokémon has Plus or Minus.
Ups Sp. Atk if another Pokémon has Plus or Minus.
Castform transforms with the weather.
Protects the Pokémon from item theft.
The Pokémon may heal its own status problems.
Boosts Attack if there is a status problem.
Ups Defense if there is a status problem.
Damages attackers using any draining move.
Powers up Grass-type moves in a pinch.
Powers up Fire-type moves in a pinch.
Powers up Water-type moves in a pinch.
Powers up Bug-type moves in a pinch.
Protects the Pokémon from recoil damage.
Turns the sunlight harsh when the Pokémon enters a battle.
Prevents the foe from fleeing.
Prevents the Pokémon from falling asleep.
Prevents other Pokémon from lowering its stats.
Raises the Pokémon's Attack stat.
The Pokémon is protected against critical hits.
Eliminates the effects of weather.
Raises evasion if the Pokémon is confused.
Raises Speed if hit by an Electric-type move.
Deals more damage to a Pokémon of same gender.
Raises Speed each time the Pokémon flinches.
Raises evasion in a hailstorm.
Encourages the early use of a held Berry.
Maxes Attack after taking a critical hit.
Raises Speed if a held item is used.
Weakens the power of Fire-type moves.
Doubles all stat changes.
Reduces HP if it is hot. Water restores HP.
Adjusts power according to a foe's defenses.
Boosts the power of punching moves.
Restores HP if the Pokémon is poisoned.
Powers up moves of the same type.
Increases the frequency of multi-strike moves.
Heals status problems if it is raining.
In sunshine, Sp. Atk is boosted but HP decreases.
Boosts Speed if there is a status problem.
All the Pokémon's moves become the Normal type.
Powers up moves if they become critical hits.
Protects the Pokémon from indirect damage.
Ensures attacks by or against the Pokémon land.
The Pokémon moves after all other Pokémon do.
Powers up the Pokémon's weaker moves.
Prevents problems with status in sunny weather.
The Pokémon can't use any held items.
Moves can be used regardless of Abilities.
Heightens the critical-hit ratios of moves.
Damages the attacker landing the finishing hit.
Senses a foe's dangerous moves.
Determines what moves a foe has.
Ignores any stat changes in the Pokémon.
Powers up “not very effective” moves.
Reduces damage from super-effective attacks.
Temporarily halves Attack and Speed.
Enables moves to hit Ghost-type Pokémon.
Draws in all Water-type moves to up Sp. Attack.
The Pokémon gradually regains HP in a hailstorm.
Reduces damage from super-effective attacks.
The Pokémon summons a hailstorm in battle.
The Pokémon may gather Honey from somewhere.
The Pokémon can check a foe's held item.
Powers up moves that have recoil damage.
Changes type to match the held Plate.
Powers up party Pokémon when it is sunny.
Reduces a sleeping foe's HP.
Steals an item when hit by another Pokémon.
Removes added effects to increase move damage.
Makes stat changes have an opposite effect.
Makes the foe nervous and unable to eat Berries.
Sharply raises Attack when the Pokémon's stats are lowered.
Lowers stats when HP drops below half.
May disable a move used on the Pokémon.
May heal an ally's status conditions.
Reduces damage done to allies.
Physical attacks lower Defense and raise Speed.
Doubles the Pokémon's weight.
Halves the Pokémon's weight.
Reduces damage when HP is full.
Powers up physical attacks when poisoned.
Powers up special attacks when burned.
May create another Berry after one is used.
Anticipates an ally's attack and dodges it.
Raises one stat and lowers another.
Protects the Pokémon from weather damage.
May poison targets when a Pokémon makes contact.
Restores a little HP when withdrawn from battle.
Protects the Pokémon from Defense-lowering attacks.
Boosts the Pokémon's Speed in a sandstorm.
Makes status-changing moves more likely to miss.
Boosts move power when the Pokémon moves last.
Enters battle disguised as the last Pokémon in the party.
It transforms itself into the Pokémon it is facing.
Passes through the foe's barrier and strikes.
Contact with this Pokémon spreads this Ability.
Boosts Attack after knocking out any Pokémon.
Raises Attack when hit by a Dark-type move.
Bug, Ghost or Dark type moves scare it and boost its Speed.
Reflects status- changing moves.
Boosts Attack when hit by a Grass-type move.
Gives priority to a status move.
Boosts certain moves' power in a sandstorm.
Inflicts damage to the Pokémon on contact.
Changes form when HP drops below half.
Boosts the accuracy of its allies and itself.
Moves can be used regardless of Abilities.
Moves can be used regardless of Abilities.
Protects allies from attacks that limit their move choices.
Prevents lowering of ally Grass-type Pokémon's stats.
Restores additional HP when a Berry is consumed.
Changes the Pokémon's type to its last used move.
Reduces damage from physical moves.
The Pokémon steals the held item of a Pokémon it hits with a move.
Protects the Pokémon from ball and bomb moves.
Sharply raises Special Attack when the Pokémon's stats are lowered.
Boosts the power of biting moves.
Turns Normal-type moves into Ice-type moves.
Prevents the Pokémon and allies from falling asleep.
Changes form depending on moves used.
Gives priority to Flying-type moves.
Boosts the power of aura and pulse moves.
Boosts the Defense stat in Grassy Terrain.
The Pokémon can pass an item to an ally.
Boosts the power of contact moves.
Turns Normal-type moves into Fairy-type moves.
Contact with the Pokémon lowers the attacker's Speed stat.
Turns Normal-type moves into Flying-type moves.
Allows the Pokémon to attack twice.
Raises power of Dark type moves for all Pokémon in battle.
Raises power of Fairy type moves for all Pokémon in battle.
Reduces power of Dark- and Fairy-type moves.
Makes it rain heavily when the ability activates.
Turns the sunlight extremely harsh when the ability activates.
Creates strong winds when the ability activates.
Raises Defense when attacked.
Switches out when HP drops below half.
Switches out when HP falls below 50%.
Sharply raises Defense when hit by a Water-type move.
The Pokémon's attacks become critical hits if the target is poisoned.
Changes stats when HP drops below half.
Deals double damage to Pokémon switching in.
Halves damage from Fire-type moves, doubles power of Water-type moves used, and prevents burns.
Powers up Steel-type moves.
Raises Special Attack when HP drops below half.
Boosts the Pokémon's Speed stat in a hailstorm.
The Pokémon uses its moves without making contact with the target.
All sound-based moves become Water-type moves.
Gives priority to restorative moves.
Normal-type moves become Electric-type moves and their power boosted.
Doubles Speed during Electric Terrain.
Changes Wishiwashi to School Form.
Avoids damage for one turn.
Transform into Ash-Greninja after causing opponent to faint.
Changes form when HP drops below half.
The Pokémon can poison Steel and Poison types.
The Pokémon is always asleep but can still attack.
Prevents use of priority moves.
Deals damage upon fainting.
Copies the foe's Dance moves.
Raises power of teammates' Special moves.
Halves damage from contact moves, but doubles damage from Fire-type moves.
Protects the Pokémon from high-priority moves.
Raises Special Attack when another Pokémon faints.
Contact with the Pokémon lowers the attacker's Speed stat.
Inherits an ally's ability when it faints.
The Pokémon copies the Ability of a defeated ally.
The Pokémon boosts its most proficient stat each time it knocks out a Pokémon.
Changes type depending on held item.
The Pokémon creates an Electric Terrain when it enters a battle.
The Pokémon creates a Psychic Terrain when it enters a battle.
The Pokémon creates a Misty Terrain when it enters a battle.
The Pokémon creates a Grassy Terrain when it enters a battle.
Prevents other Pokémon from lowering its stats.
Reduces damage when HP is full.
Reduces damage from super-effective attacks.
Powers up moves that are super effective.
Boosts Attack in battle.
Boosts Defense in battle.
Changes the Pokémon's type to its last used move.
Retrieves a Poké Ball from a failed throw.
Lowers foe's Speed when hit.
Ignores moves and abilities that draw in moves.
Reflects any stat-lowering effects.
Returns with a catch in its mouth after using Surf or Dive.
Ignores moves and abilities that draw in moves.
Drastically raises Speed when hit by a Fire- or Water-type move.
Boosts sound-based moves and halves damage from the same moves.
Creates a sandstorm when hit by an attack.
Halves damage from Special moves.
Doubles the effect of berries.
Avoids damage from Physical moves for one turn.
Just being next to the Pokémon powers up moves.
Changes type depending on the terrain.
Nullifies effects of Light Screen, Reflect, and Aurora Veil.
Powers up ally Pokémon's Steel-type moves.
When hit by a move that makes direct contact, the Pokémon and the attacker will faint after three turns unless they switch out of battle.
Swaps abilities with opponents on contact.
Boosts the Pokémon's Attack stat but only allows the use of the first selected move.
Neutralizes abilities of all Pokémon in battle.
Prevents the Pokémon and its allies from being poisoned.
Changes forms each turn.

Contact moves can strike through Protect/Detect.
Resets all stat changes upon entering battlefield.
Powers up Electric-type moves.
Powers up Dragon-type moves.
Boosts Attack after knocking out a Pokémon.
Boosts Special Attack after knocking out a Pokémon.
Combines Unnerve and Chilling Neigh/Grim Neigh
Combines Unnerve and Chilling Neigh/Grim Neigh
Contact changes the attacker's Ability to Lingering Aroma.
Turns the ground into Grassy Terrain when the Pokémon is hit by an attack.
Raises Attack when hit by a Fire-type move. Cannot be burned.
Lowers Defense/Sp. Def and raises Attack/Sp. Atk/Speed when HP drops below half.
Protects from status conditions and halves damage from Ghost-type moves.
Immune to Fire-type moves, and Defense is sharply boosted.
Takes no damage from wind moves, and boosts Attack if hit by one.
Boosts Attack if intimidated, and prevents being forced to switch out.
Powers up Rock-type moves.
Doubles power of the next Electric-type move used, when hit by a wind move.
Transforms into its Hero Form when switching out.
Goes inside the mouth of an ally Dondozo if one is on the field.
Doubles power of the next Electric-type move when hit by an attack.
Raises highest stat in harsh sunlight, or if holding Booster Energy.
Raises highest stat on Electric Terrain, or if holding Booster Energy.
Gives immunity to status moves.
Lowers Special Attack of all Pokémon except itself.
Lowers Defense of all Pokémon except itself.
Lowers Attack of all Pokémon except itself.
Lowers Special Defense of all Pokémon except itself.
Turns the sunlight harsh when entering battle, and boosts Attack while active.
Creates an Electric Terrain when entering battle, and boosts Special Attack while active.
Copies stat boosts by the opponent.
Can eat the same Berry twice.
Boosts the power of slicing moves.
Attack and Special Attack are boosted for each party Pokémon that has been defeated.
Copies ally's stat changes on entering battle.
Scatters poison spikes at the feet of the opposing team when the Pokémon takes damage from physical moves.
Prevents opponent using priority moves.
Restores HP when hit by a Ground-type move.
Status moves go last, but are not affected by the opponent's ability.
Partially restores an ally's HP when it enters a battle.
Ignores opponent's Evasiveness, and allows Normal- and Fighting-type attacks to hit Ghosts.
Boosts Attack/Defense/Sp. Def/Speed depending on the form.
Boosts Attack/Defense/Sp. Def/Speed depending on the form.
Boosts Attack/Defense/Sp. Def/Speed depending on the form.
Boosts Attack/Defense/Sp. Def/Speed depending on the form.
May cause bad poisoning.
Lowers opponent's Evasiveness when entering battle.
Transforms into Terastal Form in battle.
Moves are not very effective when HP is full.
Eliminates all effects of weather and terrain.
Poisoned Pokémon also become confused.
